blog-guidelines.md, before:

# ebpf.io Blog Guidelines

## ebpf.io Blog Overview

The ebpf.io blog serves as a channel for eBPF project maintainers, contributors, and anyone interested in eBPF to share content with the eBPF community.

The content on our blog consists of:

- Articles about eBPF projects, whether on the eBPF Landscape or not
- Technical content and how-to’s
- Stories about eBPF project deployments
- Use cases and success stories
- Industry insight into eBPF adoption
- Reports from eBPF related events

Other topics are welcome, but it needs to have a direct link to the eBPF community. We accept content from anyone and external links are welcome.

## Content

The ebpf.io blog audience is developers, IT operators, and eBPF and open source enthusiasts. Keep this in mind as you develop your blog content.

Some things to think about:

- Posts must be vendor-neutral. The post may mention a vendor’s name as it relates to specific open source projects, project deployments, adoption paths, their hosting of an in-person event or speaking at an event, or other indications of meaningful participation in the community, but it shouldn’t feel like an advertisement for your services or company. We do not accept announcements or press releases to the ebpf.io blog.

- The most interesting posts are how-to blogs, blogs with technical content, and those that teach or show how to do something in a way others may not have thought of.
- Blog posts that show hurdles that were encountered and explain how they were overcome often do very well as the community is looking to learn.
- Content on how to choose between different technologies and how to accommodate different legacy issues and platforms is a good way to highlight your learnings and share with the community.
- When showing upstreaming of a patch fixing an issue for others, link back to the GitHub issue (or upstream patch, mailing list discussion, etc.), so readers can follow along.
- Critical commentary or broad issues must be approached with sensitivity, professionalism, and tact in a way that is beneficial and positive for the community.
- Your post must be your content. Everything published on ebpf.io will be under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). Your post can be republished to another website under those terms.
- We are also happy to link to external blog posts if they are published elsewhere.
- Translations of blog posts are also accepted.

Authors can add 1-2 sentences at the end of their blog with a link to an external site such as their website or a gated asset. Examples for best practices:

- Sharing contact info of the author: Twitter, Slack, email...

- Links to company websites
- Links to projects websites or GitHub
- Advertising if they are hiring and who to contact if interested

We will review the statement, as we do for the content for the blog. If changes are needed, we will provide suggestions.

## Promotion

Please feel free to share the blog on Twitter and reach out to [blog@ebpf.io](blog@ebpf.io) if you would like to request retweets from [@ebpfsummit](https://twitter.com/eBPFsummit).

## How to submit for consideration

Both blogs and links to external blogs can be submitted via a pull request. You can also submit a brief summary and the topic of the post to [blog@ebpf.io](blog@ebpf.io) for consideration or review. We will respond with a proposed date of publication or if it’s not suitable for the ebpf.io blog, we will provide feedback and direction.

Commit message:

chore: add events guidelines (#607)
* chore: add events guidelines

* chore: nit fixes

Signed-off-by: Shedrack akintayo <akintayoshedrack@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Shedrack akintayo <akintayoshedrack@gmail.com>

blog-guidelines.md, after:

# ebpf.io Blog Guidelines

## ebpf.io Blog Overview

The ebpf.io blog is a channel for eBPF project maintainers, contributors, and anyone interested in eBPF to share content with the eBPF community.

The content on our blog consists of:

- Articles about eBPF projects, whether on the eBPF Landscape or not
- Technical content and how-to’s
- Stories about eBPF project deployments
- Use cases and success stories
- Industry insight into eBPF adoption
- Reports from eBPF related events

Other topics are welcome, but it needs to have a direct link to the eBPF community. We accept content from anyone and external links are welcome.

## Content

The ebpf.io blog audience is developers, IT operators, and eBPF and open source enthusiasts. Keep this in mind as you develop your blog content.

Some things to think about:

- Posts must be vendor-neutral. The post may mention a vendor’s name as it relates to specific open source projects, project deployments, adoption paths, their hosting of an in-person event or speaking at an event, or other indications of meaningful participation in the community, but it shouldn’t feel like an advertisement for your services or company. We do not accept announcements or press releases to the ebpf.io blog.

- The most interesting posts are how-to blogs, blogs with technical content, and those that teach or show how to do something in a way others may not have thought of.
- Blog posts that show hurdles that were encountered and explain how they were overcome often do very well as the community is looking to learn.
- Content on how to choose between different technologies and how to accommodate different legacy issues and platforms is a good way to highlight your learnings and share them with the community.
- When showing upstreaming of a patch fixing an issue for others, link back to the GitHub issue (or upstream patch, mailing list discussion, etc.), so readers can follow along.
- Critical commentary or broad issues must be approached with sensitivity, professionalism, and tact in a way that is beneficial and positive for the community.
- Your post must be your content. Everything published on ebpf.io will be under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). Your post can be republished to another website under those terms.
- We are also happy to link to external blog posts if published elsewhere.
- Translations of blog posts are also accepted.

Authors can add 1-2 sentences at the end of their blog with a link to an external site such as their website or a gated asset. Examples of best practices:

- Sharing contact info of the author: Twitter, Slack, email...

- Links to company websites
- Links to projects websites or GitHub
- Advertising if they are hiring and who to contact if interested

We will review the statement, as we do for the content for the blog. If changes are needed, we will provide suggestions.

## Listing Events On ebpf.io

Please see the ebpf.io [Event Guidelines](./Events-Guidelines.md).

## Promotion

Please feel free to share the blog on Twitter and reach out to [blog@ebpf.io](blog@ebpf.io) if you would like to request retweets from [@ebpfsummit](https://twitter.com/eBPFsummit).

## How To Submit Blogs For Consideration

Both blogs and links to external blogs can be submitted via a pull request. You can also submit a summary and the topic of the post to [blog@ebpf.io](blog@ebpf.io) for consideration or review. We will respond with a proposed date of publication or if it’s not suitable for the ebpf.io blog, we will provide feedback and direction.
